The video is recorded at Padma Samye Ling Monastery, who have a strong Tibetan accent, discussing
the Nine Yanas according to the Nine Yanas, who have a strong Tibetan accent, discussing the Nine
Yanas according to the Nine Yanas according to the Nine Yanas.
This is a presentation of the Bodhicata and the thinking of all the beings. As far as space goes,
that much or many of the sentient beings are existing, and that many sentient beings are also burd
ened by it, as we've been discussing, the karma and the emotions, and therefore then our Bodhicata.
We are also trying to extend as that meaning, and with that motivation of the Bodhicata, and then
again we reflect on the teaching.
(speaking Tibetan)
And again, the Dokin is, of course, the essence teaching of the Buddha Shakyamuni, and also Dokin
is known as then the highest teaching of the Buddha, the Shakyamuni, and therefore often is known
as the peak of the Yana, or the top of the Yanas, all the Yanas. Dokin is the top, and even
sometimes also, as we mentioned, it is beyond the Yana, because it is not the state that can be
hidden in that,
that you move forward, but it is, itself, you reach the point, or the origin and the actual state,
so there is nothing further to go than that, and therefore, even it's not just like Yana, it is nug
get, the achievement, the realization, the full state.
And, but, however, in the Dokin itself, it also can be, always in the Yuma school, kind of
explaining, there is three in a tantra, or the three mostly important tantra teachings, and that
often known as in the terminology, as dho, jo, sam, three dho, and jo, and sam.
And dho, referring to the Anu, you are teaching, there is a famous tantra known as then dho, wung,
wang, dupa, and dho, that sutra, that gathering all the intention or all the worst mind of the
Buddha, and that is just a roughly translation of the title, dho, wung, wang, dupa.
And then, the second is dho, jo, and the joom, trow, trowa, tantra of the maya, jali, and all nets
of the illusion, it is a display, and that, referring to the old Mahayoga Tantra teaching, and as
well as, specifically, started with the Gohyangarpa Tantra, and then all the other tantra teachings
of the relativity, the Mahayoga Tantras.
And then, and the third one is the sam, sam is mind, and then samdi, the sami, or there is many
different sections of the mind, dho ki teaching, but primarily, deals with mind sections of the dho
ki teaching, there is a board, maybe a board, like eight different tantra teachings that related,
specifically with the mind, or not mind, mind sections of the teaching.
Teaching, and which is then one of the foundation of those mind, the mind sections of the dho ki
teaching, is then the Gohyangarpa, or the king of creations.
And those are the different way of the explaining of the teachings, or the categorizing in the new
Maha schools. And then, and sometimes, also this is named as like, that in the teaching, often
named as like, creation stage, or the vigilant stage of the practices, japa, and then zopa is the
completion stage of the teachings, and a great zopa, or great completion stages.
And that deals with creation stage teaching, mainly explaining teachings on the Mahayava, and the
completion stage teaching is mainly explaining about the Anu Yoga teaching, and a great completion
teaching, then dealing mainly explaining about the dho ki teachings.
So that, also indicating, these three n-tantaras are absolutely connected. Of course, entirely
Buddha teaching, generally, all connected, they are not really contradicting each other's, all
connected, and then, specifically, these three n-tantara is then, very much connected.
They are just like, in one way, they just want, and that kind of lead, and asher, as to deepest
state, nature, or the highest state of the nature, is there.
♪ So let's do what I do ♪